---
title: "**Structure of an nf-core repository**"
output:
  html_document:
    toc: false
    toc_float: false
from: markdown+emoji
---

# 

nf-core pipelines start from a template and follow the same structure. Although you won’t need to edit the code base to run an nf-core pipeline, having a basic understanding of the repository structure will help you configure its execution.


# Configuration

When a pipeline script is launched, Nextflow will look for configuration files in multiple locations. As each configuration file can contain conflicting settings, the sources are ranked to decide which settings to are applied.

Configuration sources are reported below and listed in order of priority:

1. Parameters specified on the command line (`--something value`)
2. Parameters provided using the `-params-file` option
3. Config file specified using the `-c my_config` option
4. The config file named `nextflow.config` in the current directory
5. The config file named `nextflow.config` in the workflow project directory
6. The config file `$HOME/.nextflow/config`
7. Values defined within the pipeline script itself (e.g., `main.nf`)

::: callout-warning
A `--params-file` must be used to define parameters.

Parameters defined in the parameter block in `custom.config` files **WILL NOT** override defaults in `nextflow.config` for nf-core pipelines.

:::

# `nextflow.config`

For nf-core pipelines, the `nextflow.config` contains parameter defaults. Inside the `nextflow.`config several `includeConfig` statements are used to include additional `.config` files from the `conf/` folder.

`base.config`
Generous resource allocations using labels.
`igenomes.config`
Default configuration to assess AWS iGenomes.
`modules.config`
Module-specific configuration options (both mandatory or optional).
`test.config`
A configuration to test the pipeline with a small test dataset
`test_full.config`
A configuration to test the pipeline with a full-size test dataset.

> note about params and params-file
