---
title: '**nf-core for users**'
output:
  html_document:
    toc: false
    toc_float: false
from: markdown+emoji
---

# nf-core list

The nf-core `list` command can also be used to print the available nf-core workflows along with your local information.

:::

### **Challenge**{.unlisted}

Try to find out which workflows are available using nf-core/tools:

:::

::: {.callout-caution collapse="true"}

### Solution

Run the `list` command to see what workflows are available.

The output shows the latest workflow version number and when that was released. You will also be shown if and when a workflow was pulled locally and whether you have the latest version:

```bash
nf-core list
```

Additional keywords can be supplied to help filter the workflows based on matches in titles, descriptions, or topics:

```bash
nf-core list rna
```

Additional options can also be used to sort the workflows by latest release (`-s release`, default), when you last pulled a workflow locally (`-s pulled`), alphabetically (`-s name`), or number by the number of GitHub stars (`-s stars`).

# nf-core launch

Nextflow workflows can have a considerable number of optional command line flags. To help manage these, you can use the `nf-core launch` command.

The command takes one argument - either the name of an nf-core workflow which will be pulled automatically or the path to a directory containing a Nextflow workflow. For example:

```bash
nf-core launch nf-core/<workflow name>
```

When running this command, you will first be asked about which version of a workflow you would like to run. Next, you will be given the choice between a web-based graphical interface or an interactive command-line wizard tool to enter the workflow parameters for your run. Both interfaces show documentation alongside each parameter and validate your inputs.

The tool uses the `nextflow_schema.json` file from a workflow to give parameter descriptions, defaults, and grouping. If no file for the workflow is found, one will be automatically generated at runtime.

Nextflow parameter variables are saved into a JSON file called `nf-params.json` and used by Nextflow with the `-params-file` flag.

The wizard will ask if you want to launch the Nextflow run. You will also be given the run command and a copy of the JSON file for you to copy and paste if you wish.

# nf-core download

Sometimes you may need to run an nf-core workflow on a server or HPC system that has no internet connection. In this case, you will need to fetch the workflow files and manually transfer them to your system.

To make this process easier and ensure accurate retrieval of correctly versioned code and software containers, nf-core has a `download` helper tool.

The nf-core `download` command will download both the workflow code and the institutional nf-core/configs files. It can also optionally download singularity image file.

```bash
nf-core download
```

If run without any arguments, the download tool will interactively prompt you for the required information. Each prompt option has a flag and if all flags are supplied then it will run without a request for any additional user input.
